README.rst, before:

FindLatexmk
===========

A :program:`cmake` module to locate :program:`latexmk` and provide a
function to add a LaTeX document to the build.  The goal of this module
is to provide a :program:`cmake` interface similar to ``add_executable``
or ``add_library`` where one specified the ``TARGET`` followed by the
sources  This would let :program:`latexmk` do what it does and manage
the main LaTeX dependencies while providing a :program:`cmake`\ -like
interface.  The pie in the sky interface would be

.. code-block:: cmake

  add_document(main.pdf main.tex [input1.tex input2.tex ...])

However, this it not practical as the exact output can be customized via
the ``latexmkrc`` (not limited to specifying the PDF generation via
``pdflatex``, ``lualatex``, or ``xelatex``).  This module aims to add a
proper :program:`cmake` target assuming the user has not added too many
customizations to their ``latexmkrc``.

Usage
-----

To include the module in a project:

1.  Add the ``FindLatexmk.cmake`` to your project and the add
    ``include(FindLatexmk.cmake)`` to your main ``CMakeLists.txt``, or
2.  Put the ``FindLatexmk.cmake`` on the ``cmake`` search path
    (``CMAKE_MODULE_PATH``) and use ``find_package(Latexmk)`` in your
    main ``CMakeLists.txt``.

Then add the following to your ``CMakeLists.txt``

.. code-block:: cmake

  add_latex_document(
      doc.tex [latexmkrc extra-1.tex extra-2.tex ...]
      [ENGINE PDFLATEX | LUALATEX | XELATEX | LATEX | DVI | PS]
  )

Additional flags to ``latexmk`` may be specified with ``Latexmk_FLAGS``.

.. note::
   It is highly recommended to *not* specify the ``-dvi``, ``-ps``,
   ``-pdf``, ``-lualatex``, or ``-xelatex`` flags or their equivalents
   in the ``latexmkrc`` as this could lead to additional files that are
   not recognized as byproducts by ``cmake``.

For full details, see the internal module documentation.

License
-------

Distributed under the OSI-approved `BSD 2-Clause License`_.  See the
module source for details.

Change Log
----------

Unreleased_
^^^^^^^^^^^

Added
"""""

-   Rudimentary tests to check the correct output is generated

Changed
"""""""

-   Generate the target based on the engine instead of from the command

Fixed
"""""

-   Corrected check for ``Latexmk_DIR``

0.1_ - 2020-09-05
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-   Functional release

.. _BSD 2-Clause License: https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause
.. _Unreleased: https://github.com/kprussing/findlatexmk/compare/0.1...HEAD
.. _0.1: https://github.com/kprussing/findlatexmk/releases/tag/0.1

Commit message:

Move the usage to a separate file
The usage will be useful to have on the website.  Instead of baking it
into the module, we use cmake to place it in the correct location after
pulling it from its source.  This also allows us to set the minimum
version based on a higher level definition.

README.rst, after:

FindLatexmk
===========

A :program:`cmake` module to locate :program:`latexmk` and provide a
function to add a LaTeX document to the build.  The goal of this module
is to provide a :program:`cmake` interface similar to ``add_executable``
or ``add_library`` where one specified the ``TARGET`` followed by the
sources  This would let :program:`latexmk` do what it does and manage
the main LaTeX dependencies while providing a :program:`cmake`\ -like
interface.  The pie in the sky interface would be

.. code-block:: cmake

  add_document(main.pdf main.tex [input1.tex input2.tex ...])

However, this it not practical as the exact output can be customized via
the ``latexmkrc`` (not limited to specifying the PDF generation via
``pdflatex``, ``lualatex``, or ``xelatex``).  This module aims to add a
proper :program:`cmake` target assuming the user has not added too many
customizations to their ``latexmkrc``.

Installation
------------

Use :program:`cmake` to generate the ``FindLatexmk.cmake`` and then
place it on the :program:`cmake` search path (``CMAKE_MODULE_PATH``) and
the add ``find_package(Latexmk)`` to you ``CMakeLists.txt``.
Alternatively, you can place the ``FindLatexmk.cmake`` in your project
and then ``include`` it in your ``CMakeLists.txt``.

.. include:: usage.rst

License
-------

Distributed under the OSI-approved `BSD 2-Clause License`_.  See the
module source for details.

Change Log
----------

Unreleased_
^^^^^^^^^^^

Added
"""""

-   Rudimentary tests to check the correct output is generated

Changed
"""""""

-   Generate the target based on the engine instead of from the command

Fixed
"""""

-   Corrected check for ``Latexmk_DIR``

0.1_ - 2020-09-05
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-   Functional release

.. _BSD 2-Clause License: https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause
.. _Unreleased: https://github.com/kprussing/findlatexmk/compare/0.1...HEAD
.. _0.1: https://github.com/kprussing/findlatexmk/releases/tag/0.1
